# Edison **Florez** Ph.D., M.Sc.

Data Scientist \| Business Analyst \| Computational Physicist

<edisonffh@gmail.com> $\bullet$
[github.com/e-florez](https://github.com/e-florez) $\bullet$
[linkedin.com/in/edisonflorez](https://www.linkedin.com/in/edisonflorez/)

---

[**Technical Skills:**](.) Python $\bullet$ C/C++ $\bullet$ Fortran
$\bullet$ Data Base (SQL/NoSQL) $\bullet$ Git $\bullet$ Docker $\bullet$
AWS $\bullet$ Power BI $\bullet$ Tableau $\bullet$ Linux $\bullet$ Bash
$\bullet$ OpenMP $\bullet$ HPC $\bullet$ Testing/TDD $\bullet$ CI/CD
$\bullet$ LaTeX

[**Key Skills:**](.) Complex problem solving $\bullet$ Critical thinking
$\bullet$ Storytelling $\bullet$ Creativity $\bullet$ Leadership
$\bullet$ Teamwork $\bullet$ Project Management $\bullet$ Communication
$\bullet$ Time management

**Profile:** As a data scientist with a profound background in
statistics, linear algebra, quantum mechanics, and mathematics, I bring
over eight years of experience, having served as a data scientist,
business analyst, researcher, developer, and team leader. My passion
lies in extracting fundamental insights from data, thinking critically,
and understanding the rationale behind each task. With my ability to
learn quickly and motivation to take on challenges, I have excelled as a
team player and individual contributor, taking calculated risks and
showing initiative. My experience spans consulting for biotech startups
and the financial industry, where I develop and validate scalable data
pipelines, and work collaboratively to deliver top-quality, data-driven
solutions. In my spare time, I enjoy intellectual pursuits like drawing
and writing about science fiction. I am a beer and cycling enthusiast,
although not all simultaneously.

# Professional [Experience](.)

- **Data Scientist**[Aug.2021 - Aug 2023](.)\
  HelicoBio \[[helico.bio](www.helico.bio)\], New Zealand

  COMPUTATIONAL PROTEIN DESIGNER: Leveraging in-depth knowledge of
  biophysics and protein design, I created and validated scalable
  pipelines to advance plant biology research. As a `DATA SCIENTIST`,
  I collaborated with cross-functional groups to deliver high-quality,
  data-driven solutions. My role involves collecting and preparing
  data, finding insights, and creating easy-to-understand visuals. I
  contributed to all phases of the software development lifecycle
  including the development, testing, and deployment of new
  functionalities using Python and C++. A notable achievement was
  leading the development of a pipeline, a protein design platform
  enabling the execution of comprehensive all-atom molecular dynamics
  simulations, which are instrumental in understanding protein
  dynamics and function.

- **Freelancer Editor**\
  Enago \[[enago.com](https://www.enago.com/)\], Remote [Since
  Apr.2023](.)\
  MDPI \[[mdpi.com](https://www.mdpi.com/)\], Remote [Apr.2018 -
  Dec.2018](.)

  COPY & SUBSTANTIVE EDITING: I perform Copy Editing, refining grammar
  and scientific terminology; and Substantive Editing, enhancing
  manuscript structure and content, clarifying ambiguous text, and
  verifying citation relevance. This helps authors aiming for
  high-impact journals and those requiring extensive language
  assistance.

- **Teaching/Lab Assistant and Demonstrator** [Aug.2018 -
  Mar.2020](.)\
  Massey University \[[massey.ac.nz](www.massey.ac.nz)\], New Zealand

  PHYSICS: Instruct and advise students in workshops, with an emphasis
  on intricate topics such as advanced mechanics, thermodynamics,
  fluid dynamics, magnetic field theory, electromagnetism, and circuit
  analysis. My role is instrumental in enhancing students'
  understanding of these complex physical concepts and principles.

- **Data Scientist**[Aug.2016 - Mar.2018](.)\
  EY-ifb \[[ey.com](www.ey.com/en_gl/ey-ifb)\], Colombia.

  SAP-IMPLEMENTATION AND BANK-ANALYZER: Develop tailored solutions
  based on thorough business and technical analyses, primarily within
  SAP for Analytical Banking and Business Intelligence. I specialize
  in crafting complex models and implementing them, addressing
  economic problems through customized solutions. Additionally, I
  developed and implemented mathematical models related to financial
  inquiries, providing detail-oriented and pragmatic solutions.

- **Graduate Teaching Assistant**[Sept.2015 - Aug.2016](.)\
  University of Antioquia \[[udea.edu.co](www.udea.edu.co)\],
  Colombia.

  QUANTUM & COMPUTATIONAL CHEMISTRY: Guide advanced college students
  through the intricate domain of Quantum Chemistry. I ensure students
  achieve proficiency in the quantum language, comprehend relevant
  methods, and grasp key concepts. Furthermore, I facilitate their
  understanding of the interpretation and application of these
  principles in chemically interesting systems.

# Open-Source [Contributions](.)

- **Parallel Tempering Monte Carlo (PTMC):** This project introduces
  an advanced Fortran (2003) code that uses the Parallel Tempering
  Monte Carlo (PTMC) method for an accurate and efficient analysis of
  phase transitions in atomic and molecular clusters. Code available
  on [github.com/e-florez/PTMC](https://github.com/e-florez/PTMC)

- **Atomic and Molecular Cluster Energy Surface Sampler (AMCESS):** An
  open-source Python package that automates the exploration of the
  Potential Energy Surface (PES) for atomic and molecular clusters.
  AMCESS uses advanced optimization techniques to generate candidate
  structures for critical points on the PES, enhancing research
  accuracy and efficiency. Code available on
  [github.com/e-florez/amcess](https://github.com/e-florez/amcess)

# Academic [Background](.)

- **Doctor of Philosophy** [July 2023](.)\
  Computational Physics, Massey University, New Zealand

- **Master of Science** [December 2014](.)\
  Computational Chemistry, University of Antioquia, Colombia

- **Bachelor of Science** [July 2012](.)\
  Chemistry, University of Antioquia, Colombia

# Fellowships [and Awards](.)

- **Ph.D. in Physics:** Massey University Doctoral Scholarship

- **M.Sc. in Chemistry:** Honours and research work with meritorious
  award.

# Publi[cations](.)

1. **Flórez, Edison**; Zapata-Escobar, Andy; Ferraro, Franklin; Ibarguen-Becerra, César; Chamorro, Yuly; and Maldonado, Alejandro F. "Coordination of Mercury (II) in Water Promoted over Hydrolysis in Solvated Clusters [Hg(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>1-6</sub>]<sup>2+</sup><sub>(aq)</sub>: Insights from Relativistic Effects and Free Energy Analysis." [Accepted Accepted by The Journal of Physical Chemistry A](.)

2. **Flórez, Edison**; Reuvers, Tom; Schwarz, WH Eugen and Peter Schwerdtfeger."The Stability of the Noble Gas Fluorides from Nonrelativistic and Relativistic Density Functional and Coupled Cluster Studies." [Submitted](.)

3. **Flórez, Edison**; Odile R. Smits; Jan-Michael Mewes; Paul Jerabek; and Peter Schwerdtfeger. "From the gas phase to the solid state: The chemical bonding in the superheavy element flerovium." The Journal of Chemical Physics 157, no. 6 (2022): 064304.[DOI: 10.1063/5.0097642](https://www.doi.org/10.1063/5.0097642)

4. Chamorro, Yuly; **Flórez, Edison**; Alejandro F. Maldonado; Gustavo A. Aucar; and Albeiro Restrepo. "Microsolvation of heavy halides." International Journal of Quantum Chemistry 121, no. 7 (2021): e26571. [DOI: 10.1002/qua.26571](https://www.doi.org/10.1002/qua.26571)

5. **Flórez, Edison**; Helgaker, Trygve; Klopper, Wim; Teale, Andrew; Stopkowicz, Stella; and Pahl, Elke. "Melting Under Extreme Conditions: Ab Initio Monte Carlo Simulations." In APS March Meeting Abstracts, vol. 2019, pp. C17-001. 2019.
   [ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2019APS..MARC17001F](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2019APS..MARC17001F/abstract)

6. **Flórez, Edison**; Alejandro F. Maldonado; Gustavo A. Aucar; Jorge David; and Albeiro Restrepo. "Microsolvation of methylmercury: structures, energies, bonding and NMR constants (<sup>199</sup>Hg, <sup>13</sup>C and <sup>17</sup>O)." Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics 18, no. 3 (2016): 1537-1550. [DOI: 10.1039/c5cp04826e](https://www.doi.org/10.1039/c5cp04826e)
   Super[visions](.)
   =================

- Co-supervisor M.Sc. thesis, computational chemistry[Apr.2018 -
  Feb.2020](.)\
  **Microsolvation of Heavy Halides \[X(H$_2$O)$_{1-6}$\]$^-$ (X = Br,
  I, At)**\
  University of Antioquia \[[udea.edu.co](www.udea.edu.co)\],
  Colombia.

References available upon request

---\
Yours sincerely,

**Edison Florez**

<edisonffh@gmail.com>

Auckland, New Zealand.

[ ![image](figs/qrcode_github_page.png) ](https://github.com/e-florez/)
